# Bignum
Performs addition and multiplication on arbitrary-precision non-negative integers.

My representation of a bignum is a list of numbers, where each element is an integer between 0 and 9, inclusive. Additionally, my bignums follow the reverse base-10 system, where the first element in the list holds the 10^0 place value, the second element holds the 10^1 place value, and so on. I chose this particular implementation so as to avoid utilizing the reverse procedure and because lists are capable of being easily manipulated.

For both the bignum+ and bignum* procedures, the user would input two lists of numbers, where each number is an integer between 0 and 9, inclusive. The user must be sure, however, to input the digit corresponding to the 10^0 place value (i.e. the ones place) as the first element in the list, the digit corresponding to the 10^1 place value (i.e. the tens place) as the second element in the list, the digit corresponding to the 10^2 place value (i.e. the hundreds place) as the third element in the list, and so on. For example, if the user would like to multiply 3,019,778 and 6,327, the user must input (8 7 7 9 1 0 3) (7 2 3 6). If the user would like to add 2,000,092 and 87,955,320, the user must input (2 9 0 0 0 0 2) (0 2 3 5 5 9 7 8). Note that because multiplication and addition are commutative, the order of the inputted lists will not alter the result.

The input for the bignum+ procedure serves as the input for the plain-adding procedure, which results in an intermediate data type (i.e. a list of numbers where each element is an integer between 0 and 18, inclusive). Note that the resulting list continues to follow the reversed system detailed above. The output of plain-adding then serves as the input to the carry procedure, which utilizes the carry-helper procedure to reduce each element greater than 9 by “carrying the one” to the next higher place value. The output of the carry procedure (i.e. a list of numbers where each element is an integer between 0 and 9, inclusive) is the output for bignum+ (i.e. a list of integers between 0 and 9, inclusive, that represents the sum of two bignums — in other words, another bignum).

Below is an outline for the bignum+ procedure:

bignum+ —> plain-adding —> carry (—> carry-helper)

When two lists are inputted into bignum*, the car of the first list and the entirety of the second list are inputted into the partial-multiplication procedure. The partial-multiplication procedure outputs a list of numbers between 0 and 81 that is the result of the multiplication of the car of the first list (L1) and each element in the second list (L2). This intermediate data type (i.e. a list of numbers following the reversed system above and whose elements are integers between 0 and 81, inclusive) then serves as the input to carry, and carry-helper by extension. Carry returns a list of integers in reverse order where each element is non-negative and less than or equal to 9. The output of carry then serves as input to bignum+. The output of the bignum+ procedure (i.e. a list of integers between 0 and 9, inclusive, that represents the sum of two bignums) is the output for bignum*. Note that bignum* is a recursive procedure and therefore represents the result of the sum of (length L1) lists that have followed the path detailed above and outlined below.

bignum* —> partial-multiplication —> carry (—> carry-helper) —> bignum+
